This
is Deborah Beale, and I'm interviewing Dr.
Michael Pustay on the history of Texas
Engineering Experiment Station. The date is June
11, 1984.
And what I'd first like to start with is a little
biographical sketch of you and how you came to A&M.
Let's start with education as one of the best
places to start. Well, I'm a C minor graduate
working in economics at Washington University
and 69 in Dublin. Master's of philosophy and PhD in
economics from Yale in 1973. I taught at Purdue for
five years and Bowling Green for two years. and
I've
been in there for four years. I guess I've been the
head of the business and technology research
division for three years. I've been also the
research coordinator for research and
technology business for three years or two. We're
set up together. We're set up together. So I
basically work two things. I'm a member of the
business and public policy group in the
department of management. in the
College of Business,
which makes, and I'm also an associate professor
in basically the DPD group of colleges, and a group
of economists and lawyers who look at the
interface between business and government,
dealing with that's one of the, the government, is
one of the major determinants of profitability in
business strategies. So it's important to
provide some indication to business
students as to how the public sector and the
private sector interact. How did you make the
transition to maintenance management? I don't
think there's that strong of a boundary. My two
previous affiliations were in econ departments
that were part of colleges of business.
So it's really not been a very big transition. I can
do what I want to do. The basic
criterion is that I One half of me has got
to continue my own research agenda, which I've
been doing, specializing in regulation of
transportation, effective regulation,
deregulation, or performance of those
industries. So I'm not doing anything
differently than I would have been doing, and that
I hadn't been doing. So it's not that big of a deal.
The establishment of the research organization
within the College of Business and the Teens
Division. How did that come about? I'm not totally
sure, but certainly one impetus was Bill Mobley's
going from department head of management to
associate dean in the college. When Mobley came
in, he and I came in at the same time in August of
1980, that summer of 1980. Mobley had a fairly
extensive record as a funded researcher, doing a
lot of work
in the Office of Medical Research. The college was
under-resourced. didn't
have
as many resources as needed or needs. And one of the
things that Bill identified as a means of solving
the resource problem is to fund the research area.
I don't think that the college had a particularly
extensive record of funding research activity up
until that point. When I came here, I came with two
grants, two contracts from the Department of
Transportation and the Small Business
Administration. And I think Bill, and at that same
time, Bill and two members of the management
department were proposing also, you know,
research, which had gotten funded. And that, I
think, was the majority of the funding in the
college. So I guess I'm trying to, in a long-winded
fashion, try to say that Bill viewed funded
research as an opportunity for the college to
generate resources. He had made that an objective
of the college, excuse me, of the department when
it became department head.
When he became Associate Dean, I had the suspicion
that he mentioned
to Ben Dean and Bill Hughes that this is one area
that we need to fund the research. We need to
promote funded research at the college level as it
reduces our own resources. I think that that is the
impetus for the creation of the college research
board position. Basically, simultaneously, the
college decided
that one direction, one area that identified as
important to the state, important to the business
disciplines,
in an area that really hadn't been tapped by the
College of Business
was the interface between business and
engineering, particularly with regard to
technology transfer. the whole general
question of, we've got this new technology out
there, how do we integrate that into our business
community? And we felt that, you know, very
natural linkage with the College of Engineering,
in that regard. In some sense, that's what the
tease is, in some sense, set up to do that kind of
thing. Bill Houston and Skip Porter got along, get
along very well. I think they share some common
visions. Certainly, you know, It was
a piece of
evidence that came after that was
that how do we get a proper, you know, further step
with this notion of how do we take technology, how
do we do the engineering, how do we get things in the
workplace? And so BATTER developed a very, very
reasonably, or BATTER developed, for the most
part, sort of that sort of vision that was shined
upon the AFCRA principal architecture. That's
what it's called, battered? Well, we call it
battered.
What are the major funding things through teams at
this point in your vision? We've got two
office-enabled research contracts. We're in the
third year of one that's in jargon terms called
transition and socialization. And basically
what that means is when people are either leaving
more internal jobs or they're changing or
transferring to an organization, how do you
facilitate that transition?
Obviously that's a problem of great importance to
the military, sending people every two years,
every three years to a tour of duty, sometimes with
their families, sometimes without. How do you
transfer them, get them up to speed, integrate
them into the community, get them knowledge about
their job? So it's a natural question of concern to
the opposite end of research. It clearly is a
question of interest to the business community,
since the business community transfers people as
well. And it's in great interest just from its
basic research perspective in the college, in
terms of how to organize and manage a school, and
what's the psychology of it, what's the
management of it. What impact does it have on the
national performance? Does it work out well to
spend X dollars to fly the wives in for a
preliminary trip, or is it not worth it to panoply
the questions that are being asked? In general,
the college has tried to stress a way called the
lean, lean research, which is the research that
generates resources. And that is, in a lean, lean
sense, that at least leads to published research
in professional reference journals. So the
college
is a very strong research organization. In
essence, we really don't want to . There's
a strong encouragement for faculty to publish in
professional journals, and we don't
particularly
Walk
them through this. Praise the Lord. It's much
better for all parties concerned. Whatever
funded research they do also leads to
publications, peer-reviewed journals. So
that's where the lean-in comes in. O&R would be a
premier example of lean-in research, because it
does generate the sources, and it does . MS.
Generating more resources? Well, generating
resources, I mean, in the sense that it provides
release time to faculty, to the researchers, to
the grad students. The grants, et cetera. The
grants, et cetera. Of course, to the extent that
you do that work well, you can generate other
things. Hello, Mike, who's that? All right. I bet
they're waiting on it. So it generates more
resources. provides to the extent that you do a
piece of funded research well, allows you to go
back and sponsor other sponsors and get more
research and a couple of support, to the extent
that you can generate more publications, it gives
you that much more of a professional reputation.
But again, it makes it easier to . Is most of the
sponsored research coming from government
sources or from ? It's certainly the bulk of the
dollars. That O&R grant was, what does it say,
we're in the third year of
that, and it's a little less than 300,000 dollars,
about $100,000 each year. We have another O&R
grant that we're in the first year of, we're
studying organizations' information
processing system. and that's
about
$150,000
of support from the Department of Transportation
with the trucking deregulation. About 60,000
from the Small Business Administration with the
trucking deregulation. That's the Deere Direct
Line. Right. And we've had about 60,000 from the
Small Business Administration with the
financial deregulation of financial markets and
how it affects small value markets. And we have
some indication that we may have additional funds
there. We've got another proposal in to the Office
of Naval Research from two members of the initial
team. going
to
look
at performance feedback of the . Where
you get a notion when you do a good job, you . Those
are the biggest dollar amounts. But I guess about
$100,000 a month called industrial development .
There was a research division of TEAS that was
merged into us about two years ago.
trying to assess the strengths and weaknesses of
local communities and in terms of their
industrial development potential. I'm trying to
give them this notion of what kinds of firms they
should be targeting and what types of and also what
can they do to overcome some of the weaknesses,
sort of like strategic marketing or strategic
management. No, those things are on a fee basis to
the
communities. Yes. They're not
particularly lucrative from our perspective.
There is sort of service component to it, but
they're on a fee basis. In terms of publishing, how
does that work? Those generally, those are not
research. Those generally do not have a research
publication component to them. As a result, we
tend to develop as a core of graduate students,
cadres of graduate students who do that work under
the faculty supervision. We view that more as a
training exercise for PhD students.
Particularly, we have a couple in the market that
are more interested in that. So they view it as a
service market. It provides them support. It
provides them a little bit of visibility. It also
provides them with kind of a dry run for the
dissertation. In essence, having to go out there
and find out what the data sources are and having to
be able to get information from them. So those are a
variety, those are valuable research
skills which are which fit very nicely with the
pedagogical mission of college. Have the
graduate students been doing this for years? This
isn't just a new model. Well, in the college
they've been doing it for, say, two years now, in
the past, before it was part of us, I think they were
using full-time staff. I think they had a problem.
that they were having trouble getting enough
work,
given the price they had to charge on their
full-time staff. When
did they move to the Center for Strategic
Technology and they moved it back out? I think it
was independent of Media, Industry, and
Technology. I think it moved out and then it moved
to us. Well, it had been around since the blues,
that beginning division. I've been told that
division at one time made a lot of money. Oh, it did.
In the 50s it was going crazy. And I don't know if you
were aware that they were doing freight rate
studies. In 1939,
the state of Texas commissioned them to do freight
rate studies because they were bringing suits in
front of the ICC for discriminatory freight
rates. And so they did tons of freight rate studies
of different things in Texas and comparative to
other states in that period. And this was the same
group of people. And then they grew into the
industrial community surveys from that. I was
told the industrial community surveys were quite
lucrative back when the federal government was
dumping a lot of money into community planning.
They would give a panel $50,000 and say, go plan.
And they'd say, well, we don't have a plan. So what
they would do is turn around and commission
industrial economics to do a survey. But
apparently that money's drying up. So we kind of
got it that it was not the most lucrative activity.
But you think you've been able to turn it into
something a little different? Well, I think we've
managed to make it into something useful for the
college and for the communities of Texas. We've
had relatively low, at lower cost than both
parties.
Where it's going to go, it's all up to you.
We've also actually
turned
it into a vehicle for publishing directories.
We've got two directories now. We've got one
directory out in the Middle East, the choice is in
the press. One is an industrial parks directory,
which we think will be useful for community
planning for those who are interested in
industrial development. Is
that the only thing that came with the TEAS
division? Basically. You're grinning.
What it came with was one secretary who had become a
staff member. He came
with a few desks, and we got a 1980 Chevrolet out of
it, and an out-motor board, possibly. A hearty
handshake. Yeah, thank you for taking that off
their hands. Well, you know, again, you get into
his idiosyncrasies of history, but the dean at the
time was Bill Muse, who was...
Hello? You were talking about the idiosyncrasies
taking off their hands. Oh, that Bill Muse was...
I'm very concerned about local
development. The vice president of the local
chamber of commerce for industrial development,
he felt at this stage that the college's
development would be very useful to start to build
outreach programs in the community. So he was very
enthusiastic about bringing
I guess, apparently, a couple of years
previously, or maybe not a couple of years
previously, we had talked before about setting up
a linkage between the college and the teams. that
industrial economics was considered as one of the
possible vehicles. But I think when you were
talking about going to the Center, I mean, the
Center for Strategic Technology was going to give
up industrial economics. Apparently there was
some consideration just at the beginning of the
College of Business at that point. I think John
Roberts wrote a couple of impassioned memoirs
saying, you know, let me have a chance to run it.
gave
him a
shot.
That's something with idiosyncrasies. In some
sense, that was part of Bill Muse's vision of how he
wanted the college to develop. What do you see as
Tease's role in the College of Business Research?
I'm not sure I phrased it quite that way, but
I guess I would say that I think that there is an
overlap, a considerable overlap in interest of
TEAS's, the College of Engineering, and the
College of Business' research missions that,
especially as the state of Texas moves away from
energy, and natural resources-based economy to a
more high-tech economy,
which is currently the governor's dream and other
political actors' opinions as well. To the extent
that Texas is going to pull it off, we're going to
have to marry business and science. We're going to
have to be able to do the research. in
terms of the technology,
but you have to also be able to deliver it in terms of
providing the proper business program, proper
opportunities for businesses to locate you and to
develop you. And I would view the College of
Business as providing some important insights
into that. There's also a significant research
overlap just in terms of what between two
colleges, especially in our business and health
department. We've got the computer science
department, there's also a business computer
science department. Industrial engineering
does a fair
amount of applied statistical
problems, as does organic farming, applying
statistics to business decision making, applied
to engineering decision making. In the
management department, they've got, you know, we
have industrial relations and personnel
practices. They've got a counterpart over
engineering. So there's actually a fairly large
overlap in the programs of the two colleges. to
pull the two researcher groups together at all, or
is this the hope for the future? Well, the research
has been pulled together on an ad hoc basis. In
industrial engineering, we've created decision
support, decision support biotech, and a couple
of our researchers were on the ground where they
are helping to develop that. In terms
of InVet, which Chris Porter
is talking about InVet, the College of Business
has been a major provider of human resources for
InVet. Well, I'd say about $140,000. I know that
they're paying about $140,000 to the college this
year in various forms, which would be about $3,000
or $4,000. Okay. For the Invent? Is Invent a
win-win?
From the viewpoint of publications, not
necessarily. That is a problem. From the
viewpoint of student development, it's a
terrific opportunity. I'm going to try and use the
student development that way. If we can get our
students into the process, and they are to a
certain extent, learning the screening of
inventions, the development of business plans,
the marketing analysis, those would be extremely
good. in terms
of faculty research and publications,
it's a bit more conjectural. We've gotten a few
publications out of it, but not as many as we would
like to, or not as many as we would need to . That's a
good question. It's, you know, it sounds like a
great idea, but with the publisher parish
problems, it's... What we've tried to do is
communicate to both our faculty, well, I think our
faculty, but to communicate to them that if we want
to have a long-term, near-term relationship, It
really has to be winning for our faculty. We can't
ask people to go over there and sacrifice their
careers. So we've been trying to put it on what I
would call teaching a buyout basis. If someone
works over for Invent,
that
they get compensated as if they were teaching.
Generally, I think that when we pay someone to
teach, say during the academic year, normally for
every hour that he's in the classroom, he or she is
in the classroom, that person has an hour outside
of the
classroom to do it. Now you know what I do as
research
board. You're talking about the pay. That
normally faculty, when you're on an academic, but
we view them as this is kind of a gross term, that
they put an hour in in the classroom and the
classroom related activities, and then they have
an hour of free time, which we would hope that they
would be involved in doing their own research and
or in well, departmental citizenship,
interviewing their job candidates, et cetera, et
cetera.
If Invent,
to make it win-win for Invent, Invent's basically
got a treat-out back in the same room. And for every
hour they work over there, they've got to have an
hour to do their research. It's for the
professional development. For the professional
development. In the short run, Invent can go to
people and say, We're going to pay you 40 hours, you
have to work for a year. They can do that. They're
going to view themselves, they're going to wind up
being the supplier of last markets, or excuse me,
the employer of last markets among the factory. I
think that's counterproductive as far as the
innovation is concerned.
I think they're generally understandable. At
that point, we get it to where it's really neutral.
Right. What are your responsibilities besides
answering phones? Well, the...
The two objectives are to promote the research
activities of the college and to generate the
resources necessary to accomplish the research.
Objective two leads back to objective one. It's
basically to simplify. The college, I think, has a
pretty clear goal of wanting to crack the top five
public universities. among public
universities, it wants to be the top five business
schools in the country. and to
achieve that objective we've got to, and one of the
means of achieving that objective is to increase
our prominence in research. And to that extent we
have to find resources to support our
researchers. The dean is devoting a fair amount of
his time to external development of the
fundraising. which a large chunk of that will be
delegated to providing faculty support, faculty
summer, faculty summer support, support for
research assistance, but it's all going to go
back, in essence,
to promote research. The TEAS connection, we
feel, is a mechanism for promoting research.
Funded research is a mechanism for promoting
research. Are you not only relying on TEAS for
funded
research? Are you going to the research
foundation? Well, realize that TEAS does a couple
things. One, TEAS does provide us with certain
financial resources. Secondly, TEAS does
contract administration. It administers the
contracts and provides all the support services
that are necessary. The Research Foundation does
some of that as well, and also the Division where
TEAS and the Research Foundation also work
together.
So TEAS provides some financial support. TEAS
also provides all that personal support
services. TEAS also provides some leadership and
some leadership. I wouldn't put the College of
Business in a follower relationship to TEAS, but I
think that there's a general feeling that So,
do
you pretty well, in terms of going after money, is
it up to the professors themselves
you are doing, or is it something that TEAS does,
comes in and says, hey, this is available? There's
a variety of mechanisms. I would imagine this is
universal throughout all the green communities.
Some of the research is simply faculty-driven.
Professors say, I'm interested in this. It comes
to me. Where can I get money for this? We'll tell
them about this agency, this agency, this agency,
our possible possibilities, write a report for
them, write a paper for us, and so on. Some we get
from the research foundation. They send out lists
of all our RFPs from the federal government who
request proposals. We will give the RFP, then
distribute to our faculty and say, if you're
interested in this one, your order for you.
Occasionally, T's will come to us and say, hey,
we've got an idea that the polls are not written.
Can you get somebody to For example, I was talking
to Boeing Computing Systems about doing some
research on Class 6
computers. And they said, well, we've got the
engineers involved, but we need someone who's
interested in this community. And I was telling
them about marketing. Can you locate someone for
us? And so I located someone. There are times, at
least they've got another one, where they think
the Air Force is going to let our contract for our
materials lab are done, and they ask us if we could
help them. Actually, it's called Manufacturing
Sciences. If we could provide them with some
people like that, too. We were going to be writing a
proposal to IBM, and it's going to be useful for us
to demonstrate that we've got a
multidisciplinary approach to it. And we'll go to
them and say, and I'll probably go to Bruce
McCormick, head of computer science, or to Eric
Charles of the Academy of Industrial Engineering
and say, hey, We need some help from you guys to
round out what's possible and presumptions that
they'll help us. So it's a two-way street
regarding who helps who. It is
only where the research comes from or how it's
initiated that really varies across the
spectrum. But is your job also to cancel the other I
would view
myself as, in some sense, a repository for
information, a dispenser of information. Since
all information, one way or another,
conceptualizing is that all information about
research flows into me and then I disperse it to
those things that's useful information.
Information is costly. Transmitting
information is costly. If you can centralize that
function, there are some advantages. When people
have problems with a research project they've
already got, because they've got a problem with a
research foundation or they've run into a
bureaucratic staff who they'll come to me and I'll
figure out who they should talk to.
If someone's interested in writing a proposal,
I'll try and help them out, even if it's locating a
sponsor or telling them what the situation is, or
perhaps dissuading
them. I am in charge, I would say, of some career
counseling responsibilities,
which are basically given to me by the dean. For
example,
We view funded research as being desirable, as
rounding out a professor's retail,
but we think it's a higher risk activity to them,
especially the writing of the results. And we
certainly do not want to encourage our students to
engage. We'd much rather they spent their time
lining their dissertation, getting a couple
articles out of it, than engaging in a blind
proposal to the NSF. One of the things I do each year
is have an orientation session. We're just in
funded research, but this really isn't for you.
This perhaps is not for you at this stage in your
career. Crank out the easy ones first. Crank out
the easy ones first. Part of this is that in a funded
research group, reputation helps. And if you're
an unproven assistant professor, you're
swimming upstream.
It's a high enough risk activity to begin with, and
the odds are stacked against you even more.
We just don't want people to misinterpret the
signals. They read in the faculty guidelines for
evaluation that funded research are desirable.
We want them to say, oh, I've got to get to the
funding restriction. That's fine once you've
made a reputation. If you want to write a proposal,
that's fine. But we're not going to force you to. We
don't force anybody to do anything. But we don't
want to even say that. We're not encouraging you.
We want you to think that you've got to do it. Just
build your record, and when you feel comfortable
with it, deal with it, and try to write a proposal
for it. No proposal before it's done. As head of the
division, are you on Matisse payroll part-time?
Yes. Is it half-time? It's about half-time.
And...
Do you think this, then releasing, giving release
time to you, essentially, to service this
function as a repository of information, does
that help the department and the school Not
necessarily because it's you, but because...
Well, I would hope so. And if I didn't think it was a
useful expenditure of funds, I would suggest, you
know, I would recommend that we would abolish the
position. In other words, you're not getting
ready to recommend to abolish the position. No,
I'm not... No, I think in fact that the...
I think in fact that... I would
probably recommend that there are more things
that are necessary
to be done.
But the experiment is succeeding? I think the
experiment is succeeding. I think it was clear it
was a wise decision three years ago to give someone
responsibility
for basically looking after research. Before
there was no real ombudsman for research. I think
it's been very useful.
Have, you know, this has only been around for three
years, but have there been any major economic or
business orientation changes that have changed
the amount of funding from either private or
public sources? Well, I think we've hit upon it. We
really haven't been just as long enough to have a
consistent track record. I mean, we don't know. I
think that...
I think last year we put a major push on to get
resources from, to get more private resources,
more private companies. And we found that that was
a lousy time. Time was lousy given what the
business cycle was. So that was not particularly
successful. I think we also found that we were
premature. We thought that the people out there
who were, we found out that Texas A&M, we have a
college of business research. That's terrific.
We're really glad to hear about it. That took us
down a peg and we realized that we have some, we have
a PR problem that we're not as well known as we
thought we should be. Our department's, the
college is very young, I think it started in the
sixties. Our department's generally learned
very well, research-wise. I think the management
department was ranked third in a recent survey of
academy management from public universities,
after Elmore and Berkley. So we're
starting to
see indications that our research program is .
Generally, we haven't gotten any established
scholars because we've had a tendency to
build from the bottom. So we've got very young
people. The only part we've really got is really, I
guess we've got Pete Rose and Don Frey and Finian
Scott. We've got very established scholars. We
think our better days are ahead of us. I think I lost
myself there. You were talking about the
development and the question was about whether
there were any cycles.
What we found was that we thought it was a cycle in
the sense that we ran into trouble in the last
business cycle. You hit the wrong one. But we also
found that we were not as well known as we thought we
were. So we decided we better take a step back and do
a little more work. So we created what we call the
research newsletter, which we're sending out
to... I think about 1,000 chief executive
officers in Texas and national
companies, all new deans of colleges and
businesses in the country, and a variety of other
mailing lists that are out there. That's the
business college. It's a newsletter, isn't it?
Right. And a T is connected to it. Well, actually,
it's jointly put out by Batter and not the College
of Business. A lot of our stuff is jointly put out by
Batter and the College of Business, because I've
got full of his heads up. So a lot of times, we talk
about the College of Business, and it really
refers back to Batter, because Batter is, in some
sense, a 100% wholly owned subsidiary of the
College of Business, which is also owned
by Keyes. So we're putting out the newsletter just
now. Inform people
that,
yes, we are
indeed doing some research. We're sending out the
newsletter to all the Texas newspapers and
magazines. Just at the end of it, we build them on
each of our community leaders the notion that,
yes, this is a place we're working on. That was our
first attempt to overcome that. the deficiency
that we saw in the problem recognition. So I think
TEAS itself is having the same problem. And
they've been trying to address it for a few years
now. Anything
but agriculture here, I think, is the problem.
Well, the folks in Ag are doing a very good job.
They've been at it for a long time. They've been at
it for longer, but they've done a good job. And of
course, having county extension in each of the
counties is helpful. We're not going to do that.
The history department's not going to do that, so
you've got to find other mechanisms. The state's
not going to fund it either. Is there anything else
that you'd like to say about your relationship
with teens or the business department's
relationship
with teens that we haven't covered? Not often. I
guess I've rambled on to be able to richer answer
your questions. Yeah, I'm sure. It's much better
than
yesterday. I kind of thought that. I guess I'd say
that the relationship
has
been a very fruitful one. I think it will continue
to be fruitful in both parties. I think it's a
natural marriage of the interests of the college
business and the teams. I think it will promote the
mission of both groups.
I think it will help TEAS in terms of its service to
the state of Texas. It will help the College of
Business in terms of its instructional mission
and its teaching and its service mission. I think
we're looking to go on and continue to evolve. But
generally, I think a wealth organization would
less include leadership in people innovation. I
mean, it's important. And frankly, three years
ago, or four years ago, before I came here, they
asked me, what do
I think about the management department? I guess
economics or economists, by training, look at
inputs and outputs and how the inputs are
transforming the output. Outputs are kind of a
black box. Economists don't concern themselves
about that. Reality. Yeah. And I never really
thought about that until I got here. Now I'm
beginning to realize that what goes on in the black
box is important. And one of the things that goes on
in the black box is leadership. Before
leadership, in my mind, was a touchy-feely
buzzword that fed me. I still can't define it, but
it's kind of like you know it when you see it. You
know it when you're involved. And I think both
organizations are doing it.